## Change in Residential Property Value
Percentage change in residential property value for each Neighborhood Profile Area (NPA).

### Why is this important?
Higher increases in value indicate a market that values a neighborhood's amenities, while decreasing values may indicate some level of neighborhood distress. High increases rewards homeowners with increased equity and wealth, but can also make it challenging for those with fixed or limited incomes to remain in place.

### About the Data
The total assessed value for residential housing units in 2011 minus the total assessed value for residential housing units in 2003 divided by the total assessed value for residential housing units in 2003 for each Neighborhood Profile Area (NPA). NPAs with less than 5 qualifying properties were classified as N/A. Residential housing units include condominiums, single-family detached units and townhouses. Pearson's Appraisal Service identified that some neighborhoods needed to be reassessed. Based on these findings, the County will reassess the value of property in complex areas, particularly pre-1980 heterogeneous neighborhoods, to ensure equity which may change the values represented in this variable.

_Source: Mecklenburg County Tax Parcels as of April 2012._

### Additional Resources
+ [Mecklenburg County property revaluation process](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/AssessorsOffice/Appeals/Pages/default.aspx)
+ [Mecklenburg County real estate database](http://meckcama.co.mecklenburg.nc.us/relookup/)
