## Rental Costs
Median gross rent of renter-occupied housing units

### Why is this important?
Gross rent is the contract rent plus the estimated average monthly cost of all utilities. Many factors determine the rental costs in neighborhoods, including age and size of housing units, home design and condition, proximity to amenities, assigned school zones, and the availability of rental units in each area. Renting provides a flexible and more financially suitable housing option for many households, but the number of renters paying more than 30% of income for housing (the traditional measure of affordability used by the Department of Housing and Urban Development) is at a historic high. A lack of geographically diverse, affordable housing options can force trade-offs in both housing quality and spending on other critical needs such as food, health care and transportation.

#### How are we doing?
Median gross rent has climbed steadily in Mecklenburg County, from $817 in 2009 to $913 in 2014. The number of renters who are housing cost-burdened has also increased, as has the total number of renters. In 2013, 50% of renter households were cost-burdened (paying more than 30% of income on housing) and 26% of renter households were severely cost-burdened (paying more than 50% of income on housing). While some households choose to pay a higher percentage of income on housing, many low- and moderate-income households are constrained by a lack of affordable housing options.

Note: In order to make equal comparisons to the smaller areas, the values for Mecklenburg County, North Carolina and the United States in the previous paragraph are also from the American Community Survey 2010-2014 5-Year estimates. While more current 1-year estimates are available for the larger areas, it is important to use the most precise and most comparable 5-year estimates. Due to margins of error, the county-wide calculated sum of NPA values may not align with the county value. [Click here]( http://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/estimates.html/) to learn more on the difference between 1-and 5-year estimates.

#### Did you know?
The fair market rent for a 2-bedroom apartment in Mecklenburg County is $813. At minimum wage of $7.25 per hour, occupants would have to work an equivalent of 2.2 full-time jobs to afford this apartment, using HUD's affordability threshold of 30% of income.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm53'">Rental Houses</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm29'">Home Ownership</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm37'">Household Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm82'">Housing Assistance - Development-Based</a>  

### About the Data
The median gross rent of renter-occupied housing units as estimated in the American Community Survey (ACS).  

Median gross rent is inflation-adjusted to the most recent year of the five-year estimate. When a Neighborhood Profile Area (NPA) is comprised of more than one block group, the median gross rent is calculated by linear interpolation from the Gross Rent range tables published in the ACS; the margin of error is not calculated for the re-calculated median and will show as blank in the data table.  When combining NPAs into larger geographies, the median gross rent is estimated by averaging the median gross rent for each NPA weighted by the total number of renter-occupied housing units in each NPA. When combining NPAs into larger geographies, this variable should be used with caution.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. American Community Survey <span tabindex="1000" class="meta-definition" data-toggle="popover" data-title="Why 2010-2014 not 2014?" data-content="Data labeled 2010-2014 describe average conditions reported through the American Community Survey (ACS) during the period of January 2010 through December 2014. The Census collects ACS data from only a small sample of households every month. For reliable small-area estimates, the Census compiles five years of ACS data, which are used in the Quality of Life Explorer.">2010-2014</span>, 5-Year Estimates: Table B25063_


### Additional Resources 
| Resource | Learn More and Take Action 
|:--- | :--- 
|[Housing Services](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/housing/Pages/CityHousingPrograms.aspx)|The City of Charlotte offers programs to assist low- and moderate-income renters and homeowners and increase the supply of affordable housing. 
|[Charlotte Housing Authority](http://www.cha-nc.org/)| Providing decent, safe and affordable housing to low- and moderate-income families while supporting their efforts to achieve self-sufficiency. 
|[Charlotte Mecklenburg Housing Partnership](http://www.cmhp.org)|Expanding affordable housing within stable neighborhoods for low- and moderate-income families in the City of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County. 
|[Builders of Hope](http://www.buildersofhope.org/) |Providing affordable housing and urban renewal through the reuse of existing housing stock.
|[Charlotte's Workforce Housing Dilemma](http://www.richmondfed.org/press_room/our_news/2014/pdf/charlotte_data_day_martin_presentation_20140617.pdf) | More info on housing affordability and occupation/wage projections for the Charlotte region (**PDF Download**). 
|[Charlotte Data Day - Housing](http://ui.uncc.edu/story/data-day-2014-draws-crowd) | Summary of presentations focused on local, state and national housing data and policy issues