## Housing Assistance – Development-Based
Percentage of housing units with development-based rental assistance 

### Why is this important?
Identifying the location of assisted units allows housing providers to develop implementation plans and residents to understand the types of housing choices that are present in their community. Concentrating assisted-housing for low and very low-income Americans in dense, urban areas is not an effective use of scarce affordable housing resources (USHUD). Mixed-income development has become a popular housing solution by creating diverse communities and decentralizing poverty.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm5'">Housing Density</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm8'">Residential New Construction</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm9'">Residential Renovation</a>  


### About the Data
The number of housing units with development-based rental assistance divided by the total number of housing units. 

Development-based rental assistance includes properties with Low-Income Housing Tax Credits, public housing developments of the Charlotte Housing Authority, developments of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Housing Partnership, developments with funding from the Charlotte Housing Trust Fund, developments with active Section 202 Direct Loans for housing for the elderly or handicapped, units with active Project-Based Rental Assistance Section 8 Contracts through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and units with active HOME Rental Assistance subsidies through HUD. 

Note: Each assisted housing unit is counted only once, even when multiple types of housing assistance are tied to the unit. The data do not include HUD Insured loans with affordability restrictions (Federal Housing Administration) or homeownership assistance. 

_**Source**: Charlotte Housing Authority; Charlotte-Mecklenburg Housing Partnership; City of Charlotte Neighborhood & Business Services; National Housing Preservation Database; North Carolina Housing Finance Agency; U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Multifamily Properties Database_ 


### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Charlotte Housing Authority](http://www.cha-nc.org/)| Leveraging resources to develop high quality mixed income communities to promote economic integration.
|[Charlotte Mecklenburg Housing Partnership](http://www.cmhp.org)| Providing a comprehensive range of affordable housing services focused on revitalization, education, and development.
|[City of Charlotte Housing Programs](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/housing/pages/cityhousingprograms.aspx)| View performance and evaluation reports for the City's housing services.
|[City of Charlotte's Housing Locational Policy](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/housing/Pages/CityHousingPolicy.aspx)| Read about the City of Charlotte's guide for the financing and/or development of new affordable housing projects.

