## Paved Streets with Sidewalks
Percentage of paved streets that have sidewalks on at least one side of the street for each Neighborhood Profile Area (NPA).  Sidewalks not adjacent to public streets and unpaved walking trails are not included.  The quality of the sidewalk is also not assessed. 

### Why is this important?
Adequate sidewalk systems encourage pedestrian connectivity  which provides mobility options for residents of all ages and incomes.  Identifies NPA's where additional sidewalks may be needed.

### About the Data
Calculated by dividing the length of paved street with sidewalk on at least one side divided by the total length of paved streets.  Sidewalks not adjacent to public streets and unpaved walking trails are not included.  Data does not take into account any physical obstructions that would prevent or impair an individual's ability to access the location or amenity. The quality of the sidewalk is also not assessed. Data for the towns will be included in the future.

_Source: Charlotte Department of Transportation, Mecklenburg County Land Use and Environmental Services, Towns of Cornelius and Huntersville, 2011._

### Additional Resources
+ [Charlotte New Sidewalk Request](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/Transportation/CDOTrequests/Pages/NewSidewalkRequestForm.aspx)
+ [Charlotte Sidewalk Repair Request](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/Transportation/CDOTrequests/Pages/SidewalkRepairRequest.aspx)
+ [Charlotte Active Sidewalk Projects](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/epm/Projects/Sidewalk/Pages/home.aspx)
+ [NC Pedestrian Laws](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/Transportation/PedBike/Pages/North%20Carolina%20Pedestrian%20Laws.aspx)
