## Residential Solid Waste Diversion
Percentage of residential solid waste diverted from landfills through recycling and yard waste processing

### Why is this important?
Residential solid waste includes garbage, recycled items, yard waste and non-recyclable bulky items. All waste that is not recycled or composted is buried in a landfill, requiring large amounts of land and producing greenhouse gases as garbage decomposes. Diverting solid waste from landfills saves money for families and communities, saves energy and water, reduces air and water pollution, and conserves natural resources. Solid waste diversion can be increased by increasing recycling participation and separating yard waste from garbage.

####How are we doing?
The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 75% of solid waste is recyclable. Households in the City of Charlotte diverted just under 36% of solid waste from the landfill in 2013, virtually unchanged since 2011. 

####Did you know?
More than 100,000 tons of yard trimmings were received at Mecklenburg County composting facilities in 2013. While compost is available for purchase in bulk by the public, Mecklenburg County sells most of its compost to a private vendor, which in turn bags and sells the compost in stores. 

####Related Variables 
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm23'">Residential Recycling</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm24'">Residential Solid Waste</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Population Density</a>  

### About the Data
Tonnage of residential recycled waste and yard waste collected from the City of Charlotte for the fiscal year from eligible households, divided by the total tonnage of residential solid waste collected from eligible households. Residential solid waste includes garbage, recycling, yard waste and non-recyclable bulky items. The data include single family residential units (attached and detached), multi-family buildings with fewer than 30 units, and any additional legacy multi-family buildings serviced by the City of Charlotte. Towns in Mecklenburg County are not included because solid waste data are not collected at the neighborhood level.

_Source: City of Charlotte Solid Waste Services_

### Additional Resources
| Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Wipe Out Waste!](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/LUESA/SolidWaste/ResidentialRecycling/Pages/default.aspx) | Mecklenburg County's Solid Waste programs and services to help us all Wipe Out Waste.
|[2014 Mecklenburg County State of the Environment](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/LUESA/SOER/Pages/SolidWaste.aspx) | Find out how we're doing in Mecklenburg County.
|[Solid Waste Management Plan](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/LUESA/SolidWaste/ManagementPlan/Pages/default.aspx)| Mecklenburg County's plan to ensure proper disposal and management of solid waste and meet waste reduction goals.
|[Waste Diversion Basics](http://www2.epa.gov/recycle) | Start here to learn about what you can do to divert waste.
|[Decomposition Time](http://des.nh.gov/organization/divisions/water/wmb/coastal/trash/documents/marine_debris.pdf) |See how long it takes for everyday materials to decompose in a landfill (**PDF Download**).
|[What Can Be Recycled](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/SWS/CurbIt/Recycling/Pages/Home.aspx)|From glass to pizza boxes, here's what can and cannot be recycled. Look up local [Recycling Locations](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/LUESA/SolidWaste/RecyclingDropOffCenters/Pages/default.aspx) and [Yard Waste Drop Off Locations](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/LUESA/SolidWaste/homecomposting/Pages/YardWasteFacilities.aspx).
