## Tree Canopy
Percentage of land area covered by tree canopy 

### Why is this important?
Tree canopy is the layer of branches and leaves that cover the ground when viewed from above. Tree canopy provides many benefits to communities: improving water quality, saving energy and reducing cooling costs, lowering summer temperatures, reducing air pollution, enhancing property values, providing wildlife habitat, facilitation of social and educational opportunities, and providing aesthetic benefits. Strategies for increasing tree canopy include neighborhood tree planting initiatives, street tree plantings and the Street Tree Replacement Program, plantings in medians and parking lots, and plantings along riparian buffers (vegetated areas near creeks and streams). 

####How are we doing?
As of 2013, 172,283 acres of Mecklenburg County were covered by tree canopy, representing 51% of all land in the county and 47% of land within the City of Charlotte. Charlotte has substantially higher tree canopy compared to major cities such as New York, NY (21%) or Washington, DC (35%), and is similar to less urbanized cities such as Pittsburgh, PA (42%). 

The City of Charlotte has an ambitious goal to reach 50% tree canopy by 2050. Due to loss of tree canopy through continued growth and development, and natural loss of canopy due to age and natural incidents, Trees Charlotte estimates that 100,000 trees must be planted every year to reach this goal. Residential land contains 45,305 acres (40%) of land classified as Possible Tree Canopy in Mecklenburg County, so success in meeting long-term tree canopy goals relies on participation from residential land owners and neighborhood planting initiatives. 

####Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm4'">Impervious Surface</a>  

### About the Data
Number of acres of land covered by tree canopy divided by total land area. All land use categories are included in the percentage. Tree canopy is calculated by the Spatial Analysis Laboratory at the University of Vermont using high-resolution imagery and LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) technology. This new technology provides a more precise and accurate accounting of tree canopy than that used in previous studies; therefore, percentage of tree canopy in 2013 is not comparable to the percentage of tree canopy calculated in the 2002 and 2008 urban ecosystem assessments completed by American Forests. 

_Source: University of Vermont; Mecklenburg County Land Use & Environmental Services Agency_

### Additional Resources
| Learn More |  | 
| :- | :- |
|[Charlotte Tree Ordinance](http://www.charmeck.org/city/charlotte/epm/Services/LandDevelopment/trees/Pages/City%20of%20Charlotte%20Tree%20Ordinance%20and%20Guidelines.aspx)| Ordinances and best practices for planning trees in the City.
|[Project Funding Opportunity](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/communityengagement/nmg/Pages/default.aspx)| See how the City's Neighborhood Matching Grant program can fund improvements.
|[2012 Tree Canopy Report](http://treescharlotte.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/TreeCanopy_Report_MecklenburgCountyNC.pdf) | View the full report which talks about tree canopy and its components (**PDF Download**).
 
| Take Action |  | 
| :- | :- |
|[Trees Charlotte](http://www.treescharlotte.org)| Working to address the City's tree loss from development, protect its forests and native species, and create new green space.
|[Annual Tree Sapling Sale](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/LUESA/WaterandLandResources/Conservation/Pages/Tree%20Seedling%20Sale.aspx)|Purchase tree seedlings from the County from $1-$2.
|[Keep Charlotte Beautiful](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/kcb/Pages/home.aspx)| Working together to create a cleaner, greener and more sustainable Charlotte.