## Bicycle Friendliness
Index measuring the transportation network's ability to comfortably support cycling 

### Why is this important?
Cycling has positive transportation, environmental, economic and health benefits. As fuel prices remain unpredictable and traffic congestion increases, cycling increasingly becomes a less expensive, traffic-reducing and environmentally-friendly option for travel and recreation. However, much of the choice to ride a bike is based on the safety of infrastructure surrounding origins and destinations, the ability to safely share the road with vehicles, proximity to employment and other destinations, and connections to transit (e.g., bike racks on buses).

The bicycle friendliness index score ranges from 1 (least friendly) to 3 (most friendly). The index indicates an area's ability to comfortably support bicycling by combining many different variables, including low speed streets, completed bike lanes and greenways, and multiple street connections. 

####How are we doing?
Prior to 2000, there were no bicycle lanes in the City of Charlotte. Today, there are over 79 miles of bicycle lanes and 56 miles of signed bike routes in the city as well as 58 miles of greenways throughout the county.
  
According to the Alliance for Biking and Walking, cities have average 1.8 miles of bicycle facilities per square mile. In Charlotte, there are approximately 0.6 miles of bicycle facilities per square mile. 

In 2013, 0.2% of people in Charlotte reported commuting to work regularly by bicycle, ranked 49 out of 52 of the nation's largest cities. Portland, OR (6.1%) has the largest share of bike commuters, followed by Minneapolis, MN (3.6%) and Seattle, WA (3.4%).
 
####Did you know?
All CATS buses have bike racks. In 2013, there were 96,691 riders that boarded a bus with a bicycle, or an average of 265 per day.

####Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm74'">Proximity to Public Outdoor Recreation</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm35'">Street Connectivity</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm10'">Commuters Driving Alone</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Population Density</a>  


### About the Data
The index is calculated with the following formula:  
(Low Speed Street Miles + Bike Lane Miles + Completed Greenways/Multi-use Path Miles)  divided by  (Total Street Mileage + Total Completed and Proposed Greenways/Multiuse Path Mileage).

The result is a score between 1 and 3 with 1 being least bicycle friendly and 3 being most bicycle friendly. Low speed streets are streets with a speed limit of 25mph or less. Unpaved paths without a surface intended to support most bicycles are not included. 

_Source: Charlotte Department of Transportation_

### Additional Resources
| Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Charlotte B-Cycle](https://charlotte.bcycle.com/) |Charlotte's bike sharing program with 200 bikes and 24 stations.
|[Charlotte Bicycle Program](http://bike.charmeck.org) |Charlotte Department of Transportation's bicycle program information, including bike laws, best practices and infrastructure plans.
|[Charlotte Bicycle Master Plan](http://bike.charmeck.org)|View a map of Bicycle infrastructure in Charlotte and plans for the future.
|[Charlotte Transportation Action Plan](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/Transportation/PlansProjects/pages/transportation%20action%20plan.aspx) |The City of Charlotte's comprehensive, multi-modal transportation plan.
|[Matching Grants](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/communitycommerce/Pages/NMG.aspx) |Support a bicycle project in your area through the City of Charlotte's Neighborhood Matching Grants program.
|[Take Your Bike on the Bus](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/cats/Bus/ridingcats/Pages/bicycle.aspx) |View a demo and get safety tips for loading your bicycle on the bus rack.
|[Charlotte Bicycle Mentor Program](http://groups.google.com/group/bikementor) |Discussion by Charlotte bike riders on a wide variety of bike-related topics, including commuting.
|[Bicycle Benefits](http://bb2.bicyclebenefits.org/#/cities/7)|Find a Charlotte business that gives discounts to cyclists.
|[Bicycle Benchmarking](http://www.bikewalkalliance.org/resources/benchmarking) |National data on biking and walking from the Alliance for Biking and Walking.