## Street Connectivity
Index measuring the connectedness of the street network

### Why is this important?
A more connected street network makes it easier to travel around by car, bike, transit or by foot. For neighborhoods, a higher index score indicates more ways to get to local stores or services. For the broader community, a higher index score indicates more route options when traveling throughout the county. Areas of the county that have good connectivity tend to be more walkable, more bike-friendly, are easier to serve with transit, have less congestion, and have more efficient response times for emergency services. Street connectivity in neighborhoods can be improved by applying traffic calming and streetscaping rather than closing off streets to control excessive traffic or travel speeds. 

The street connectivity index score ranges from 1 (least connected) to 3 (most connected). The index indicates an area's density of route options and directness of paths. 

####How are we doing?
For the City of Charlotte, a street connectivity index value of 1.35 or greater is a desired goal for areas outside of Route 4 (Eastway-Wendover-Runnymede-Billy Grahm Parkway), and an index value of 1.45 or greater is desired for areas inside of Route 4 within Charlotte's in-town neighborhoods. The median index value for neighborhood areas across Mecklenburg County is 1.18. 

####Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm70'">Sidewalk Availability</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm34'">Bicycle Friendliness</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm44'">Transit Ridership</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Population Density</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm75'">Job Density</a> 
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm30'">Single-Family Housing</a>  


### About the Data
The index is calculated with the following formula:  
The total number of street links (roadways or bike pathways) divided by the number of nodes (cul-de-sacs, endpoints, and intersections). 

Due to improved precision and changes in how this variable is calculated, data from prior years is not comparable to 2013 and forward.

_Source: Charlotte Department of Transportation_

### Additional Resources
| Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Charlotte Department of Transportation](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/transportation/pages/home.aspx)| Explore the City of Charlotte's many projects and initiatives, and find out about neighborhood traffic calming and streetscape projects
|[Charlotte Subdivison Ordinance](http://library.municode.com/HTML/19970/level3/PTIICOOR_CH20SU_ARTIINGE.html)| Read the full text of the ordinance which guides development.
|[Complete Streets] (http://www.completestreetsnc.org/) |Street connectivity is an integral part of North Carolina's Complete Streets policy
|[Street Networks and Public Health] (http://www.planetizen.com/node/70772) |Recent rsearch linking street connectivity and improved health outcomes through increased walking and cycling
