## Tree Canopy - Residential
Percentage of residential land area covered by tree canopy 

### Why is this important?
Tree canopy provides many benefits to communities: improving water quality, saving energy and reducing cooling costs, lowering summer temperatures, reducing air pollution, enhancing property values, providing wildlife habitat, facilitation of social and educational opportunities, and providing aesthetic benefits. Strategies for increasing tree canopy include neighborhood tree planting initiatives, street tree plantings and the Street Tree Replacement Program, plantings in medians and parking lots, and plantings along riparian buffers (vegetated areas near creeks and streams). 

#### How are we doing?
As of 2013, 76,338 acres of residential land were covered by tree canopy, representing 55.4% of all residential land. 

The City of Charlotte has an ambitious goal to reach 50% tree canopy by 2050. Due to loss of tree canopy through continued growth and development, and natural loss of canopy due to age and natural incidents, Trees Charlotte estimates that 100,000 trees must be planted every year to reach this goal.

#### Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm4'">Impervious Surface</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm3'">Tree Canopy</a>   

### About the Data
Number of acres of residential land covered by tree canopy divided by total residential land area. Residential land is identified and analyzed at the parcel level using the City of Charlotte Planning Department's *Existing Land Use* data. 

Tree canopy is calculated at the parcel scale by the Spatial Analysis Laboratory at the University of Vermont using high-resolution imagery and LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) technology. This new technology provides a more precise and accurate accounting of tree canopy than that used in previous studies; therefore, percentage of tree canopy in 2013 is not comparable to the percentage of tree canopy calculated in the 2002 and 2008 urban ecosystem assessments completed by American Forests. 

_**Source**: University of Vermont; Mecklenburg County Land Use & Environmental Services Agency_

### Additional Resources
| Learn More |  | 
| :- | :- |
|[Charlotte Tree Ordinance](http://www.charmeck.org/city/charlotte/epm/Services/LandDevelopment/trees/Pages/City%20of%20Charlotte%20Tree%20Ordinance%20and%20Guidelines.aspx)| Ordinances and best practices for planning trees in the City.
|[Project Funding Opportunity](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/communityengagement/nmg/Pages/default.aspx)| See how the City's Neighborhood Matching Grant program can fund improvements.
|[2012 Tree Canopy Report](http://treescharlotte.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/TreeCanopy_Report_MecklenburgCountyNC.pdf) | View the full report which talks about tree canopy and its components (**PDF Download**).
 
| Take Action |  | 
| :- | :- |
|[Trees Charlotte](http://www.treescharlotte.org)| Working to address the City's tree loss from development, protect its forests and native species, and create new green space.
|[Annual Tree Sapling Sale](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/LUESA/WaterandLandResources/Conservation/Pages/Tree%20Seedling%20Sale.aspx)|Purchase tree seedlings from the County from $1-$2.
|[Keep Charlotte Beautiful](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/nbs/kcb/Pages/home.aspx)| Working together to create a cleaner, greener and more sustainable Charlotte.