## Prenatal Care
Percentage of births where mother received adequate pre-natal care

### Why is this important?
A lifetime of healthy outcomes begins before birth with good prenatal care. Women receiving adequate prenatal care are more likely to deliver a full-term baby at a healthy birth weight, which reduces the risk for developmental delays and long-term health problems. Access to prenatal care depends on many factors including health insurance coverage and accessibility of affordable health care providers, transportation and child care, cultural or language barriers, and availability of education and outreach programs.

####How are we doing?
Nearly 72% of all mothers in Mecklenburg County received adequate prenatal care in 2013. Rates of early entry into prenatal care have been declining over the past ten years.

####Did you know?
Despite efforts to improve prenatal care delivery and utilization, there has not been a concurrent decline 	in adverse birth outcomes locally or nationally. Efforts to improve birth outcomes must also address multiple determinants integrating social, behavioral, environmental and biological factors that shape or affect pregnancy.

####Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm55'">Low Birthweight</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm54'">Births to Adolescents</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm81'">Public Health Insurance</a>  

### About the Data 
Number of births where prenatal care was deemed "Adequate" using the Kessner Index divided by all live births. 

The Kessner Index assesses the timeliness (month prenatal care began) and the frequency of care (number of prenatal visits) at different times throughout the pregnancy. "Adequate care" means prenatal care began in the first trimester and the minimum number of visits for each gestational age period of the baby's growth at different points during the pregnancy was met or exceeded (Page 81, Mecklenburg County Community Health Assessment 2013, Mecklenburg County Health Department). These data are cumulative for the previous 24 months. Areas with fewer than 5 births are shown as N/A. 

_Source: Mecklenburg County Health Department_

### Additional Resources
| Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Community Health Assessment](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/HealthDepartment/HealthStatistics/Pages/default.aspx)| A comprehensive look at key indicators of public health and how our community is working to promote health for all.
|[Community Resource Guide](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/HealthDepartment/CommunityHealthServices/Pages/ResourceGuide.aspx)| Find health services in Mecklenburg County related to pregnancy care and much more.
|[Prenatal Care Management](http://charmeck.org/mecklenburg/county/HealthDepartment/CommunityHealthServices/Pages/MaternityCareCoordination.aspx)| Program to provide health care during pregnancy for high-risk, Medicaid-eligible women.
|[National Prenatal Care Utilization](http://mchb.hrsa.gov/chusa13/health-services-utilization/p/prenatal-care-utilization.html)| National data on timing and adequacy of prenatal care, by maternal race and education.
|[Prenatal Care Fact Sheet](http://womenshealth.gov/publications/our-publications/fact-sheet/prenatal-care.html)| Everything you need to know about prenatal care from the US Office on Women's Health.
|[Kessner Index](https://www.dhs.wisconsin.gov/wish/measures.htm)|Overview of the index used to assess adequacy of prenatal care, and definitions of other birth-related measures.