## Test Proficiency - Middle School
Percentage of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 6-8 proficient in End of Grade testing

### Why is this important?
Middle school test scores, particularly eighth grade math proficiency, are a critical indicator of future academic success. Test scores can assist education administrators, policy-makers, businesses, residents, and community organizations in tracking academic performance and developing strategies to increase academic proficiency. Since these data are based on where students live, regardless of what school they attend, they may help identify areas where community-based services and resources are needed to support student success. Research has identified a number of factors that contribute to test score proficiency, including early childhood experiences, school attendance, summer learning opportunities, family support, and high-quality teaching in school, home, and community settings. 

While the data are not currently available due to changes in the state testing programs, *growth* in test scores, as a measure of student progress, is just as important as proficiency. Growth and proficiency should be evaluated together to better understand student and school success.

####How are we doing?
Due to the adoption of new content standards and new end-of-grade tests in North Carolina, the 2012-13 assessment results are not comparable to prior years' scores. Countywide, approximately 34% of students in grades 6-8 were proficient in both reading and math tests. Proficiency rates are expected to rise as teachers and students adjust to the new content standards and expectations, as has happened in other states implementing new standards. 

####Did you know?
To keep middle school students on the path to graduation, researchers have identified five early warning signs with strong predictive power in grade 6: attendance rates below 80%, failure of a core English or mathematics course, out of school suspension, and behavior grades. Students with at least one flag in grade 6 had only a 29% five-year graduation rate.

####Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm62'">Test Proficiency - Elementary School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm64'">Test Proficiency - High School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm20'">Education Level - Bachelor's Degree</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm39'">Education Level - High School Diploma</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm37'">Household Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm38'">Employment Rate</a>  

### About the Data
Number of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 6-8 achieving a proficient score (Level III or Level IV) on both reading and math end of grade tests divided by the total number of CMS students in grades 6-8 taking both reading and math end of grade tests. 

Data are based on the home location of the student, regardless of which school they attend. Areas with fewer than 5 students are suppressed and represented as N/A. Students attending charter schools, private schools, or home schools are not included in CMS data.

_Source: Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Mayor's Mentoring Alliance](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/mayor/MentoringAlliance/Pages/default.aspx)| Connecting mentors with young mentees to make a positive impact on Charlotte.
|[Parent University](http://www.cms.k12.nc.us/parents/ParentUniv/Pages/default.aspx)|CMS's program to help parents become full partners in their children's education.
|[North Carolina End-of-Grade Tests](http://www.ncpublicschools.org/accountability/testing/eog/)| See all of the details on required End-of-Grade tests.
|[National Center for Education Statistics](http://nces.ed.gov/) |Education data from across the nation including test proficiency by gender, race/ethnicity, income and state. 
|[MeckEd Interactive Maps](http://ui.uncc.edu/data/partner/mecked)|Interactive exploration of CMS data at the school level
|[N.C. School Report Cards](http://www.ncreportcards.org/src/search.jsp?pYear=2012-2013&pList=1&pListVal=600%3ACharlotte-Mecklenburg+Schools+++++++++++&GO2=GO)| Explore the report card for any Charlotte-Mecklenburg School.
|[United Way Collective Impact](http://www.uwcentralcarolinas.org/collective-impact) |Check out the United Way's collaborative initiative to support student achievement and increase the graduation rate for children served by their funded agencies.

