## Test Proficiency - High School
Percentage of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 9-12 proficient in End-of-Course testing

### Why is this important?
Test scores can assist education administrators, policy-makers, businesses, residents, and community organizations in tracking academic performance and developing strategies to increase academic proficiency. Since these data are based on where students live, regardless of what school they attend, they may help identify areas where community-based services and resources are needed to support student success. Research has identified a number of factors that contribute to test score proficiency, including early childhood experiences, school attendance, summer learning opportunities, family support, and high-quality teaching in school, home, and community settings. 

While the data are not currently available due to changes in the state testing programs, *growth* in test scores, as a measure of student progress, is just as important as proficiency. Growth and proficiency should be evaluated together to better understand student and school success.

####How are we doing?
Due to the adoption of new content standards and new end-of-grade tests in North Carolina, the 2012-13 assessment results are not comparable to prior years' scores. Countywide, approximately 40% of students in grades 9-12 were proficient in end of course tests. Proficiency rates are expected to rise as teachers and students adjust to the new content standards and expectations, as has happened in other states implementing new standards. 

####Did you know?
Course grades, standardized test scores, and exposure to college-level coursework are all predictive of high school student success. However, a students' high school GPA is consistently considered the best predictor of not only freshman grades in college, but of four-year college outcomes as well.

####Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm62'">Test Proficiency - Elementary School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm63'">Test Proficiency - Middle School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm20'">Education Level - Bachelor's Degree</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm39'">Education Level - High School Diploma</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm37'">Household Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm38'">Employment Rate</a>  

### About the Data
Number of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 9-12 achieving a proficient score (Level III or Level IV) on two or more end of course tests divided by the total number of CMS students in grades 9-12 with valid scores on two or more end of course tests. 

Students enrolled in Math I, Biology, and English II are required to take the North Carolina end of course tests. Data are based on the home location of the student, regardless of which school they attend. Areas with fewer than 5 students are suppressed and represented as N/A. Students attending charter schools, private schools, or home schools are not included in CMS data.

_Source: Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Mayor's Mentoring Alliance](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/mayor/MentoringAlliance/Pages/default.aspx)| Connecting mentors with young mentees to make a positive impact on Charlotte.
|[Parent University](http://www.cms.k12.nc.us/parents/ParentUniv/Pages/default.aspx)|CMS's program to help parents become full partners in their children's education.
|[North Carolina End-of-Course Tests](http://www.ncpublicschools.org/accountability/testing/eoc/)| See all of the details on required End-of-Course tests.
|[National Center for Education Statistics](http://nces.ed.gov/) |Education data from across the nation including test proficiency by gender, race/ethnicity, income and state .
|[MeckEd Interactive Maps](http://ui.uncc.edu/data/partner/mecked)|Interactive exploration of CMS data at the school level.
|[N.C. School Report Cards](http://www.ncreportcards.org/src/search.jsp?pYear=2012-2013&pList=1&pListVal=600%3ACharlotte-Mecklenburg+Schools+++++++++++&GO2=GO)| Explore the report card for any Charlotte-Mecklenburg School.
|[United Way Collective Impact](http://www.uwcentralcarolinas.org/collective-impact) |Check out the United Way's collaborative initiative to support student achievement and increase the graduation rate for children served by their funded agencies.

