## Student Absenteeism
Percentage of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students absent 10 percent or more of school days

### Why is this important?
Consistent school attendance is critical to student success. A high number of absences reduces the likelihood a student will learn material, perform adequately on tests, and feel connected to the school community. Since these data are based on where students live, regardless of what school they attend, they may help identify areas where community-based services and resources are needed to support student success. Students may miss school due to illness or housing instability, to avoid bullying or unsafe conditions, or due to disengagement (the lack of perceived value of school). Regardless of the reason for absenteeism, addressing this "early warning sign" can increase the likelihood of on-time high school graduation and postsecondary achievement. 

####How are we doing?
Overall, 8% of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students were chronically absent, though absenteeism in some neighborhood areas reached 20% or more. Currently only a handful of states collect data on chronic absenteeism, but results from a sample of states suggest that an estimated 10-15% of students in the U.S. are chronically absent each year. 

####Did you know? 
According to a study published in the Journal *Sociology of Education*, compared to children with average attendance, chronically absent students gained 14% fewer literacy skills in kindergarten, 15% fewer literacy skills and 12% fewer mathematics skills in first grade.

####Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm12'">Population - Youth</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm65'">High School Graduation Rate</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm62'">Test Proficiency - Elementary School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm63'">Test Proficiency - Middle School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm64'">Test Proficiency - High School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm37'">Household Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm38'">Employment Rate</a>  

###   About the Data
Number of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students absent 10 percent or more of days in membership, divided by the total number of students. These data include both excused and unexcused absences. 

Membership is the number of days an individual student is enrolled. Areas with fewer than 5 students are suppressed and represented as N/A. Students attending charter schools, private schools, or home schools are not included in CMS data.

_Source: Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Mayor's Mentoring Alliance](http://charmeck.org/city/charlotte/mayor/MentoringAlliance/Pages/default.aspx)| Connecting mentors with young mentees to make a positive impact on Charlotte.
|[Truancy Court](http://www.cms.k12.nc.us/cmsdepartments/social-work/Pages/TruancyCourt.aspx)| Eliminating barriers to regular school attendance, providing comprehensive support services to students with excessive absences, and assisting families with developing important connections with schools.
|[The Importance of Being in School]( http://www.attendanceworks.org/research/)| Key research related to school attendance and absenteeism
|[MeckEd Interactive Maps](http://ui.uncc.edu/data/partner/mecked)|Interactive exploration of CMS data at the school level.
|[N.C. School Report Cards](http://www.ncreportcards.org/src/search.jsp?pYear=2012-2013&pList=1&pListVal=600%3ACharlotte-Mecklenburg+Schools+++++++++++&GO2=GO)| Explore the report card for any Charlotte-Mecklenburg School.



