## Job Density
Concentration of jobs

### Why is this important?
Where people work has implications for housing markets, the retail industry, transportation and other infrastructure needs, and may also impact environmental and physical health. Daytime population, or the population of a place in the middle of the day, often looks very different than the standard definition of population - where people sleep. Businesses that serve employment centers, such as restaurant and bars, can see where to locate that may not be apparent while looking at traditional population data. This information may also help plan for housing that more efficiently serves job centers, reduces commute times, and promotes the use of public transit and active commuting modes. 

####How are we doing?
As of 2011, there were 570,153 jobs in Mecklenburg County. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, there was a 7% increase in the number of jobs in the county from 2011 to 2013. About 30% of jobs are held by workers who commute in from another county. 

####Did you know?
Uptown Charlotte is home to approximately 14,000 people, but has a day-time population of more than 60,000 people.

####Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm42'">Commercial Building Age</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm41'">Commercial Size</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm19'">Commercial Construction</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm10'">Commuters Driving Alone</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm33'">Long Commute</a>  

### About the Data 
Number of all jobs divided by total land area. Numbers of jobs were obtained at the block group level and aggregated to Neighborhood Profile Areas. For the source dataset, a job is defined as a link between a worker and a firm at which the work has been employed for two consecutive quarters. The data exclude federal civilian employees, uniformed military, self-employed workers and informally employed workers. If a worker was employed at more than one job and those jobs are covered by the core datasets, then all of those jobs will be included. 

_Source: U.S. Census Bureau Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[On The Map](http://onthemap.ces.census.gov/)|Explore the flow between where people live and where people work in Mecklenburg and throughout the US
|[New and Expanded Report](http://charlottechamber.com/eco-dev/charlotte-mecklenburg-new-and-expanded-business/)|View the Charlotte Chamber's quarterly report on new and expanding jobs in Mecklenburg County.
|[Current Employment Statistics](http://www.bls.gov/ces/)| The Bureau of Labor Statistics has a wealth of information on employment trends for the entire country.
|[UNC Charlotte Economic Forecast](http://belkcollege.uncc.edu/business-community/economic-forecast)|Keep up-to-date with this quarterly economic forecast for the state of North Carolina.